---
published: true
category: blog
layout: blog
---
I haven't spoken much about the contingency plan of going back to another contract job should I not be able to pull off getting funding for my game stuff, but as I watch my bank balance plunge downward with the beginning-of-the-month withdrawals I'm confronted with the reality that my resume isn't going to update itself.

I always seem to find myself at odds with resume writing for some reason. When I was younger, it seemed counterintuitive to use the same format to profess your experience for someone new to a craft as would a veteran. A bulleted list of accomplishments for each employer doesn't make sense if you've only had one employer, or haven't really accomplished much yet. Now that I am a veteran, and you would think I'd be more at home with the form, but I'm not.

Most resumes I read describe a project or system that someone worked on, and if they're good, maybe they also describe the impact that their work had on the organization. Now I'm not discounting the ability it takes to distill your history into a few one-liners about technology or business, but I'm not certain how much value that ability has outside of writing resumes. Besides the form, I'm also not sure how valuable even the substance of "I did x work resulting in y." is across your entire work history. I rewrite a bulk mailer at my first job and increased efficiency. It's good to know that I place enough value on that accomplishment to include it on my resume, but just reading it as a bullet point on a job I had 15 years ago doesn't tell you much about whether I would have repeated success at my next job. This is maybe why all those resume advice sites say your most recent job is the most important section you write. I'm certain I have rejected a resume after only reading that section at some point.

So what about the other 80% of the document? Now that I'm faced with the task of rewriting it, rather than trying to compose a highlight reel, I find myself much more interested in trying to tell my _story_. What's that mean? I'm not sure yet. I know stories have themes, lessons, a logical progression of events, and characters that change over time. So to help me figure out this next iteration of my resume, I'm gonna try writing a few blog posts about the jobs I've had and see what pops out. On my blog I don't have to worry about the form, just the substance. Maybe my story will fit will with the norm, or maybe a new, better form will emerge. Or maybe neither will happen, and I'll have nothing to show but a window into my process. That's still something.
