Finally got some work from WSI this week, and it might actually be fun. They've been doing some general housecleaning on the front end with a lot of the stylesheets and js and whathaveyous and one of the things they're upgrading is Compass/Sass. It's pretty cool because I like *just* did this for gabbo, though it sounds like what Brian wants to do might be a little more tricky. I'll find out exactly what he needs from me tomorrow...I know there's some buildsystem integration for this stuff so that might be it. 

I was going to drive in tomorrow but my stupid sleeping schedule got the best of me again. Also I'd be lying if I didn't say I kind of want to watch the blizzard unfold on CNN tonight. I don't know why because normally weather coverage just annoys me, but I've fallen into this trap of watching CNN all day while I work, and if it's on a day like today where one story dominates the news, I can't get away from it when it continues on into the night. Same thing happened with the Ferguson grand jury verdict coverage some weeks back.

On the gabbo front, Hyah is introducing me to some folks that have some experience in the VC world. I'm not sure if I mentioned it here or not, but I'm starting to get more serious about raising money and trying to go full time on gabbo. The unplanned vacation I had this past December was really great and I wish I didn't have to go back to having to split my time. Actually splitting your time isn't even the thing, what sucks is splitting your attention. This means I need to go back to thinking about gabbo's position in the marketplace, both in the economic sense and the marketplace of ideas. How do I ensure that this thing stays open and free and still pay my bills?

I've also got some code to write this week I think. I thought I might be able to put off coding support for the flavors thing until a good solution presented itself but 1) that's wishful thinking and 2) too many other things depend on it. Like one thing I really need to code up is the API for game settings so I can support things like configurable inventory and look output, movement messages, etc; but settings should be scoped to the flavor like for defaults, and overridable by the zone. Pretty annoying to code the settings stuff without the rest of the plumbing in place first.

In the social realm, I'm still in need of a few more exploratory currency conversations. I spoke about it with Iffy a bit last week, but his perspective is that of a game designer. That's valuable in its own way but this could also use the take of a game theorist. I want to start putting bounties on github issues and maybe even see if there's any low hanging fruit from EotL I can enlist to do some of the more mundane stuff. I was thinking it might be cool if currency was issued to wizards for coding stuff, and that increased how much currency they were allowed to give out in their own areas. It's an interesting incentive since players are drawn to more lucritive areas. It would be disingenuous to do any of this, though, without some degree of confidence that the currency will retain its value.
