---
published: true
category: blog
layout: blog
---

Spent my Friday night sinking about 5 hours into that civ game I wrote about. I'm just into the Medieval era and gearing up for my first war. I did end up going with China and I just researched Machinery which gives me their UU, a crossbowman replacement that can attack twice a turn. I already have a bunch of composite bowmen trained, I just need to save up the money to upgrade em, and then build a few siege units. I've got a few melee units runnin around right now too but I should probably build more. I'm hoping I don't have to use them much.

The more interesting part is deciding who I'm gonna attack. Like I said before, this is really my first time playing an aggressive civ like this in Civ 5. I'm on a pretty big continent with 5/8 civs on it, and have 3 pretty respectable cities. Even though I happen to have the most land area right now, I'm definitely playing tall, not wide.

The most threatening civ right now is Portugal but they're on the other side of the map so I'll have to deal with them later. My nearest neighbors are Carthage and England so it'll probably be one of them. Deciding between the two is actually kind of hard, which is a testament to how rich the game has become. England doesn't have much of an army, and if I take them first then I'll have Carthage trapped between me and the coast. 

On the other hand, I have better relations with England and I'm not really sure how that works as far as justifying going to war with them. Diplomacy is a much bigger part of the game than it used to be and I'm not sure if I should be keeping up appearances for the sake of relations with other civs, or just be all like China-do-what-it-want because I know I'm eventually gonna have to attack everyone to win anyway. 

Then there's religion which is a whole other thing. Civ 4 was the first version to try an introduce religion but it didn't work very well. I think they tried to make it so you didn't have to pay attention to it if you don't want, but that really constrains the kinds of choices you can present to the player. In Civ 5 there's all sorts of crazy bonuses and even if you're not a "religious" civ, you still should be paying attention to what religions are being spread into your cities. In this case, my capital has already adopted Carthage's religion, so it might be worth going after them first to capture the holy city or whatever.

There's just so many different choices to decide from now, I have to imagine it's overwhelming for new players. I learned the game playing the original back on my 386 and I remember it being a lot more direct, if that's the right word for it. It was a lot easier to wrap your head around the calculations that were being done because many of the choices offset one another. For instance, science, luxuries and tax income were all part of one pool and you just set little sliders to determine how things go broken up. There were also specialists to boost science/happiness, but they were just represented by little mans on the city screen as some portion of a city's population. 

Specialists in the current game are mostly the same, except when you take them from working the land you have to put them in a special building (like a Library) instead of the building and the specialist both giving you their own distinct bonus. And when you work a specialist slot you earn points towards a great person, which is a unit that lets you make special improvements to the land that ordinary workers can't do. Of course you have to take workers off that same land to make the specialist in the first place so you need to make sure you're keeping your city growing while all this is happening; it's hard enough just figuring out what all these things mean much less understanding how they're connected. 

And there's so many more stats in the current game. The first game basically just had money, production, food, science & happiness, and then attack/defense/movement for units. The new game has stats for culture, tourism, faith, trade route capacity, experience points for espionage and combat units (with all sorts of modifiers), points for city-state influence, and a delegate count in some new fangled World Congress thing. It's great because there's so many different ways for the game to reward you, but you can really get lost trying to balance it all in you're head.

Of course that's also one of the things that makes the game so well tailored for computers. I know there's a board game adaptation that's supposed to be pretty fun, but it takes all day and, though I've never played it, I have to imagine you spend a lot of time on protocol. Computers, however, are great at executing protocol, which frees the player up to spend more time making decisions. And making decisions is really what Civilization is all about. The turn-based nature lets you ponder your choices as much (or as little) as you want, and each turn is its own little balancing act, but with a different cast of characters each time.

It might be the perfect ENTJ game. Some of the military stuff can be a little more S than N, but most of the game demands big-picture thinking if you're going to be successful. I know one of my Steam friends picked it up a while back so I can see when she's playing it and stuff, and I don't think it took because she stopped after a couple weeks. It's one of my very favorite games so it's disappointing to see that, but I don't know if enjoying the game is something that can be learned or if it's just a matter of taste. 

I know the UI has gotten better over the years, but I don't know how much that's mattered for attracting new players. I wouldn't necessarily describe him as a NT type but sometimes I think it's the kind of game my dad might like. The most he's ever gotten is Chessmaster, but he likes chess and they're both point-and-click games for the most part. There's definitely way too much going on in civ for him to attempt it right out of the gate, but maybe there's a gateway game out there he could play to get on board. Or if not, maybe they should make that, instead of Beyond Earth or whatever.
