---
published: true
category: blog
layout: blog
---
I bought a couple new cooking books this week, _The Elements of Cooking_ and _Ratio_. They're both by Michael Ruhlman.
<!-- more -->
I got interested in Ratio after reading an excerpt on the comments section of Good Eats' chicken stock page noting that his water to chicken ratio was off. From there I looked it up on Amazon and read the entire stock section. I love the idea of this book. My favorite cookbook that I own is probably _The Best Recipe_, which is a encyclopedia of recipes from _Cooks Illustrated_/_America's Test Kitchen_. I like the process behind the book, which is super geeky and involves iterating over even simple recipes many times, with panels to taste test and professional chefs to implement their suggestions. The food it produces has a very baseline appeal. It isn't going to blow anyone away like a recipe conceived by some artisan chef, but the recipes are very safe, allowing a lot of room for embellishment. Essentially, I like the recipes for their ratios.

The offering of recipes in _The Best Recipe_ is still centered around specific dishes because that's how the magazine and the show are structured, and I imagine their selection process was probably a lot like their writing process. The recipes are very traditional and present dishes that are found in American popular culture. _Ratio_ cuts through all the bias and distills recipes down to just the math; 3 parts water : 2 parts bones : ~1 part aromatics. From this, countless variations can be derived. I don't expect to see much about methodology in the book, but that's okay because I've got _The Best Recipe_ (and others) for that.

One of those others will probably end up being _The Elements of Cooking_. The first section is on stock, and so far I've read that, and the introduction by Anthony Bourdain. I like the promise of this book. It's seems to be intended for home cooks who are trying to fill in the gaps in their knowledge base having not gone to culinary school. I've learned to cook from watching my mom and cooking shows on television, reading Alton Brown's textbooks, and practicing in my own kitchen. You can become a pretty good cook that way, but I'm still left wondering what the committed students of the craft know that I don't. I often finding myself wondering the same thing as a programmer, having gone to film school, but at least with programming I've been fortunate to work and be friends with some very talented software engineers. From that I am exposed to the jargon, the canonic texts, and some of the more esoteric knowledge outside of my chosen space of web development. I'm hoping this book fills the void of not having any chef friends.

My stock just got up to temperature as I've been writing this. I also learned from the books that my simmer has been too hot and why 180F is ideal. I wonder, though, am I improving my technique because I bought these books, or from some other underlying condition that also compelled me to buy the books? One of the other things I'm changing up from my past brews is to only add the aromatics an hour before cooking is finished; only an hour is required to extract all the flavor and longer cooking times can make them fall apart and compromise the stock. I swear I've read this elsewhere before, but for whatever reason I either haven't remembered or chose to ignore it. Maybe the former, since in this case I read the books right before I made the stock, but I think I've always done that every other time too with some cooking source or another. Maybe the latter. Sometimes I overmeasure because I want to believe I'm maximizing my result, or sometimes I just don't want to add an extra step. In any case, I think it started with a genuine motivation to make a better product.
