---
published: true
category: blog
layout: blog
---

I got a job. I wanted to blog more during my job hunt but it didn't happen for whatever reason. Hopefully I'll be able to update more now that I'm reclaiming my comfort. Just in case I do, here's a quick recap of the last few months. I started the job hunt in August by experimenting with a different approach to marketing myself. I focused more on LinkedIn than a traditional resume and tried to use a more subjective, narrative-based approach to demonstrating my value as a prospective employee. It didn't really work out; examining why not would an interesting topic for another post, but I'll just say here that without meeting a baseline response rate, I had to switch my strategy or I'd go broke.
<!-- more -->
After a couple weeks of relying on my LinkedIn profile, I hunkered down and wrote a real resume. I drew a little bit of inspiration from the job profiles I'd authored two weeks earlier, and I kept a copy of my previous resume for reference (last updated circa 2008), but it was otherwise a page one rewrite. As soon as I published it, it immediately started generating responses. 

It got me an interview within about a week and a half with a startup doing data visualization in San Mateo; that one I got through AngelList and it was a good first pancake interview, but I wasn't really interested in the job. The bulk of the traffic from the resume came from recruiters that found it on Monster or Dice. I didn't even really use Monster or Dice much beyond just posting the resume, the cold calls I was fielding from recruiters was enough to keep me busy. I had one interview with an Apple contractor in Sunnyvale that didn't really go anywhere, and then back to back interviews with Apple and PayPal. I ended up taking the PalPal job and I started one week ago today.

A couple things I learned along the way... For the first time maybe since I was a student, the notion occurred to me that there are jobs out there I actually really want. I had a phone screen with a company in Sunnyvale called Kodable that builds game software that teaches K-6th graders how to code. The phone conversation went extremely well and I was really surprised when they chose not to bring me in for an interview. But c'est la vie, at least I got to realistically entertain the notion of working on such a project for a little while. They were even looking for leadership too. 

I didn't really set out looking to work at what's essentially an Internet bank, but it jives well with my ecom background and at least I'm working on part of their communications infrastructure, even if there aren't any users near where I live. And there's actually a dashboard type app in development so there may end up being some UI stuff to work on after all. The Apple job I wanted a bit more because they were doing some gamification, but they needed more time to make a decision after the interview than I was willing to give them with another offer already on the table. 

The next time I go looking for work, I'm going to give myself more time and really go after the job I want. I'm good at what I do and if I want to write games that teach kids to code, in the right market I should be able to find someone that wants my help doing that. I almost went after the Apple job. The reason they didn't offer me the job right away was because they were worried about my lack of experience with concurrent programming. And they're not exactly wrong the worry, concurrent programming is hard. But I spent the weekend after the interview studying concurrency and almost emailed the hiring manager Sunday night to try to sell her on hiring me anyway, but I wimped out and ended up just going to bed instead. In that moment I just didn't have the confidence it takes to write an email like that.

Next time, though. There will be other Apples and other Kodables.
