Woke up this morning feeling pretty uninspired, so I doubt I'll get any coding today unless I get sucked into something later tonight. There are a couple quick win things I could do...mostly stuff to enhance the shell. I definitely don't feel like making any grand architectural decisions today.

Kinda feel like starting a new civ game, but I haven't been able to finish the last couple I've started and I doubt this one would be any different. One game was Brazil to play around with tourism and go for my first cultural win, but someone beat me to #1 on international games and I was kinda banking on that to win. The other one was my first attempt at a religion-heavy game using the Celts but I don't even think I made it past the Medieval era on that before I abandoned it. Right now I'm thinking of playing someone like China and just going for a military victory...I've actually never played a game of Civ 5 for domination yet.

Kinda funny considering that used to be the only way to win and now it's sorta the least interesting to me. I've been playing a bunch of Age of Wonders 3 the last couple weeks, though, and I'm starting to get a little bit better at the tactical stuff -- thought I might see how much of that translates to my civ game. If I keep improving maybe I'll even be able to win a game of BattleLore some day. 

AoW3 is pretty fun but I don't know if it'll hold my interest long-term. There's a little bit of exploration and empire building because it's a 4X game, but the game seems to mostly be about what you do with your armies. I also tried out Fallen Enchantress: Legendary Heroes which was better in some areas and worse in others. I've almost completely lost interest in Diablo 3. Early on I thought it was really fun but now it's become more of a grind. Part of the blame might be with the difficulty I'm playing it on. I never seem to have a problem with hitpoints, like ever. I boosted the setting from Normal to Hard but that didn't really help enough, and the game won't let me set it any higher without starting over. Seems stupid but whatever. I really should try and finish it, I'm about 3/4ths of the way through.

Doh just got a text from WSI about a bug in that thing I checked in the other day gotta go.
