---
published: true
layout: blog
category: blog
---

Williams-Sonoma has been very good to me. They've hired me on three different occasions, and they've allowed me to cut my hours and move off-site to accommodate my other projects. I couldn't really have stayed up till the wee hours of the morning writing gabbo code these past months if I had a 9-to-5er that I had to contend with Monday to Friday. So for that I'm very grateful.

Now that my working relationship with them is ending, I'm probably looking at a more traditional schedule again. There are some questions I need answers to if that's going to happen. First and foremost, why am I doing it? I need a better answer than just, "finding a part time programming job that doesn't suck is really hard." And what's going to happen to my gaming work? Even if I'm not allocating hard hours to it every week, I'm constantly thinking about it and refining ideas in my head. I can't make myself just stop caring about it because I got a new job.

So here's what I've learned. It's very difficult to care about two things. One of them always wins out. It's not always the same one, which makes it very hard to build momentum on a goal since you're trying to serve two different masters. The constant tug-of-war also causes a lot of anxiety too; "I'm thinking about X but I have to work on Y, what do I do???" It's just not a great way to work -- the guy that owns my 7-11 told me that once: just do one thing.

I think what's made Williams-Sonoma work isn't necessarily the schedule I kept, though. Yes, I limited myself to 20 hours most weeks, but it's not that simple. Sometimes I worked more than 20. Sometimes I worked less. Sometimes I did 8-8-4 and sometimes I did 8-6-6. I did try to make sure I kept regular "office hours" so there was some period of time where people could depend on my responsiveness. But I may say I'm "available" Wednesday from 10 to 2 when I'm really using that time to work on other things and checking messages in the background. Then I'd do my actual Williams-Sonoma work in a 4-hour block on Thursday, instead. Why might I do this? Maybe I started working on some code Tuesday night and wanted to finish it Wednesday morning before I moved onto something new. Or maybe the Williams-Sonoma code more difficult and I'd prefer to work on it during Thursday's "quiet time."

My point is that I don't think it was necessarily the 20 hour week that made this relationship work. I think it was that I was given the freedom to sorta carve up my week in a way that made sense to me. Even if I were giving them 40 hours a week, that kind of freedom would still allow me to write gabbo code on the side, maybe just not as much. It doesn't entirely address the momentum problem of trying to juggle two things, but it at least let me work on gabbo when I was focused on gabbo, and work on Williams-Sonoma when I was focused on Williams-Sonoma. I'm talking here just about code, but I think you could extend the case out to really any of that anxiety caused by work-life balance issues.

Maybe the answer is to stick with a 40 hour work week and just work on one project at a time, but try to negotiate the freedom to take frequent leave to work on other things. Unpaid of course, but be able to say, "hey I'm going to skip the next two sprints to work on some other stuff." You'd run the risk becoming disconnected with the people you work with and the work that they're doing, though. One thing about Williams-Sonoma is I was present every week, even if it was just dialing into the morning stand-up meetings on days when I had "office hours." Taking off for a month at a time really inhibits continuity if you're tasked with long-term projects. Sticking with smaller projects or trying to arrange some kind of touch-base could help make it work though.

There's another factor in the freedom equation, and that's the effect of working remotely. That'll have to be my next post.
