---
published: true
category: blog
layout: blog
---

Quick catch up: I worked at PayPal for a year, left a couple months ago, and now I am job hunting once more. I really oughta update this thing more often. Anyway, I wrote some sample code for an interview and it inspired me to drop that and some other stuff on the panterasbox.com [github repo](https://github.com/bobalu113/panterasbox/tree/master).

The thing I wrote for the interview is a basic RESTful service providing CRUD operations on a data store. The company was in the aviation business, so the business object you're managing are Plane objects, each with an id, airspeed, and range. In addition to the CRUD endpoints, there's an endpoint to calculate flight time across a two-dimensional coordinate space. They didn't specify any particular tech to use, but I knew they were a Java shop so I used Spring 4. I used Spring 3 at Williams-Sonoma, and it seemed like a good opportunity to see what's changed. I like Spring. Before WSI, I used JEE at Teneros, and it worked well enough for what we were doing, but generally speaking I think more loosely coupled components is the way to go. If nothing else, it leads to loosely coupled documentation so I don't have to read a manual every time I use it. For what it's worth, I hear JEE has gotten a lot better.

A few highlights. The new Spring REST MVC controllers are a nice addition; having to manually wire the view for a REST service just seems like a bother. I'm not sure if this is new or not, but another nicety was being able to stand the thing up without a web.xml. You probably still want config files for complicated production deployments, but for something I'm just hacking together, starting with a couple of boiler plate config and initializer classes is handy. Probably the most useful addition was the MockMvc service for unit testing your Spring MVC apps. It's probably not for testing purists, because it's sorta halfway between a functional test and a pure unit test, but I liked it. Basically it acts as complete service that you can POST/GET/etc to in your unit test, even though there's no actual server running. For my test, I used a Spring-injected controller so it ran with real DAOs and such, but you could also stand up MockMvc in "standalone" mode if you wanted to mock out all your dependencies and do it that way.

The other piece of Java code I added to the repo is the prototype Endeca Cell Manager I wrote while I was at Williams-Sonoma. It was something I wrote on my own time to refresh my skills with the ZK Web Framework, and there wasn't much interest in me finishing it when I pitched it to management. The ZK framework, for the unfamiliar, is a user interface framework which maintains the UI state on the server. The server is also where most of the rendering is done, with a relatively "dumb" client-side app. The cell manager backend is a little difficult to talk about without going into the details of the WSI search implementation, but basically Endeca is a third-party search application that operates in "cells," each able to have its own search tree and process requests and such. There's a state machine managing these cells since you need to be able to reconfig, repopulate and reindex, among other operations.

The cell manager is just a dashboard that speaks to the WSI backend and displays cell activity in real time. Eventually I wanted to add other management functions that devops or other developers could use while they were working with the Endeca application. The main reason I've kept the code around all these years is to have a reference for building a ZK application. JavaScript front-end tech has gotten so advanced now I'm not sure if I'd ever use ZK again unless I needed to tightly couple the UI state and the server-side application. ZK as a framework doesn't scale at all, but I always really liked ZUL, which is this user-interface markup language adapted from XUL. It's a really elegant way to model user interfaces that don't rely on fine-tuned styling control. The other thing I liked about the cell manager project was it introduced me to MVVM as an alternative to MVC. It felt like a much nicer way to handle the one- and two-way data-binding that ZK provides. 

I think I'll end this post here and write about the EotL code I added in another post. There's a scripts/ directory in the repo that's mostly empty right now, but I write a lot of scripts when I'm actively developing. My scripting language of choice is Perl. Not counting LPC, it's the language I've known the longest and I'm really fast with it. The object model is kinda crap so I mostly stick to using it for procedural code; if I want OO then I'll use Python. There's also a spotify/ directory where I was going to build some Spotify tools at one point in time, but I only got as far as authentication. Someday...
